Findings
1.
High - Blog metadata is injected without context-aware escaping. worker.js escapes only excerpt, then inserts raw title, author, tag, and category into HTML attributes, text nodes, JSON-LD, image alt text, and share URLs. See worker.js:177 and worker.js:183. The template sinks include template.html:19, template.html:21, template.html:36, and template.html:263. This is already visible in generated output: dist article:12 and dist article:171 have broken attributes from raw quotes. Impact is malformed SEO/social metadata today, and persistent HTML/JSON/script injection risk if metadata ever contains hostile characters.
Fix at the builder layer with separate helpers for HTML text, HTML attributes, JSON-LD via JSON.stringify, and URL query params via encodeURIComponent. Add a golden test article containing ", ', &, <, and Greek text.
2.
High - Local EMBED:/WIDGET: files bypass the raw-widget sanitizer. The parser accepts local embed filenames at embeds.js:395. The renderer validates only basename and extension, then injects file contents directly at embed-render.js:312 and embed-render.js:351.
The safer raw-widget path blocks scripts, iframes, event handlers, SVG, forms, and javascript: URLs at embed-render.js:221, but local embed files do not use that path. I found no current non-article .html, .htm, or .svg embed files in sampled corpus, so this is latent, but the first future use becomes a persistent injection surface.
Fix by applying the same sanitizer/allowlist to local embed files, or by removing local HTML/SVG embeds and using sandboxed iframes for intentionally rich embeds.
3.
Medium/High - Production safety depends on always serving dist, but deployment/docs make that brittle. The public artifact flow is good: build:public chains build, artifact copy, and validation at package.json:25; dist excludes admin/editor tools via allowlist and forbidden-file checks at public-artifact.mjs:24 and validate-public-artifact.mjs:14.
The risk is configuration drift. Root contains generate.html and housekeeping.html, both browser-side GitHub admin tools with PAT storage and direct GitHub API writes. See generate.html:1213, generate.html:1241, generate.html:1366, and housekeeping.html:566.
README says deployment is handled by .github/workflows/deploy-pages.yml, but that file does not exist. The actual Pages deploy is manual-only through Site Quality with workflow_dispatch and deploy_pages: true, see quality.yml:6 and quality.yml:62. README mismatch is at README.md:452.
Fix by adding a real deploy workflow for dist on main, updating README, and ideally moving admin tools outside the web root.
4.
Medium - The blog maintenance workflow rewrites main. On push, .github/workflows/publish-blog.yml stages all changes, amends the triggering commit, and force-pushes with lease. See publish-blog.yml:95, publish-blog.yml:106, and publish-blog.yml:110.
This makes generated artifacts neat, but it mutates published history, breaks signed commit expectations, complicates collaborators’ local branches, and may conflict with branch protection. Prefer a follow-up bot commit, PR-based generated artifact update, or Pages artifact-only deployment.
5.
Medium - npm audit reports high-severity dependency issues. npm audit --omit=dev reports high issues in @xmldom/xmldom, pulled through mammoth. This matters because .docx processing is active at parse-docx.js:13. Lockfile refs: package-lock.json:2106 and package-lock.json:3615. Full audit also reports high issues in fast-xml-builder through fast-xml-parser, used by YouTube RSS ingestion at fetch-youtube.mjs:6. Lockfile refs: package-lock.json:2882 and package-lock.json:2898.
Fix with dependency updates or overrides, then rerun both audits.
6.
Medium - YouTube snapshot URLs are trusted into homepage attributes. The RSS build script accepts link.href and thumbnail URLs from feed data at fetch-youtube.mjs:35 and fetch-youtube.mjs:41. The homepage renderer trims those values but inserts them into href and src without attribute escaping or host validation at f1-optimized.js:76 and f1-optimized.js:379.
Fix by deriving canonical YouTube URLs from validated video IDs and allowlisting thumbnail hosts, then escaping attributes at render time.
7.
Low/Medium - CSP is useful but still allows inline script/style. The generated CSP includes 'unsafe-inline' for scripts and styles at security-policy.mjs:21. That reduces CSP’s value as a backstop for the metadata and embed issues. Tightening this will take refactoring because pages still rely on inline handlers/styles, but it should be on the hardening backlog after injection fixes.
Validation Passed: npm run build:check
npm run test:blog
npm run perf:budget
npm run perf:images
npm run test:consent behavior passed on routes checked Failed: npm audit --omit=dev --json with 1 high vulnerability group
npm audit --json with 2 high vulnerability groups Observed: npm run test:consent printed “Consent analytics guard passed.” but left a local node scripts/perf/consent-guard.mjs process alive. I terminated only that process. The script has cleanup logic at consent-guard.mjs:280, so I would reproduce this under CI before treating it as a main defect.
What Looks Solid The dist artifact strategy is well designed: allowlisted copies, forbidden source/admin files, security meta injection, _headers, and image budget checks.
The consent behavior itself looks correct in the tested routes: analytics is blocked before opt-in, reject keeps it blocked, accept loads gtag.
Most visitor-facing list/index rendering paths use escaping. The main escaping gap is the article template generation path, not the whole frontend.
Suggested Priority
1.
Fix article metadata escaping and add regression tests.
2.
Sanitize or remove local HTML/SVG embed files.
3.
Update dependency lockfile/overrides until npm audit is clean.
4.
Make dist deployment automatic and update README.
5.
Stop rewriting main in the blog maintenance workflow.